# Quick Start for Single FullNode
Below are the steps for setting up a FullNode that connects to the TRON Network.

## Prerequisites

### Hardware requirements
Minimum:
- CPU with 8+ cores
- 16GB RAM
- 200GB free storage space to sync the Mainnet with Lite fullnode data snapshot
- 50 MBit/sec download Internet service

Recommended:
- Fast CPU with 16+ cores(32+ cores for a super representative)
- 32GB+ RAM(64GB+ for a super representative)
- High Performance SSD with at least 3TB free space for full data of Maninnet.
- 100+ MB/s download Internet service

### Docker

For Docker and Docker Compose installation refer [prerequisites](../README.md#prerequisites).
Then check the Docker resource settings to ensure it has at least 16GB of memory per FullNode container.

## Get Docker image
There are two ways to obtain the TRON image:
- Pull it from the TRON Docker Hub.
- Build it from the java-tron source code.

### Pull from TRON docker hub

The quick start way is to use the official images. Download the official Docker image from [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/tronprotocol/java-tron/tags) using the following command:

```
docker pull tronprotocol/java-tron
```
Notice: To ensure your download has not been tampered with, you can use `docker images --digests` to compare the digest with the [officals](https://hub.docker.com/r/tronprotocol/java-tron/tags).

### Build from source code

Check [Gradlew Docker](../tools/docker/README.md) for instructions on building a Docker image from source code using Gradle.

## Run the container

You can run the following command to start java-tron:
```
docker-compose -f docker-compose-quick-start.yml up -d
```
Check the file content:
```
services:
  tron-node:
    container_name: tron-node
    image: tronprotocol/java-tron:latest  # Add specific tag if needed
    mem_limit: 16g
    ports:
      - "8090:8090"
      - "8091:8091"
      - "18888:18888"
      - "18888:18888/udp"
      - "50051:50051"
```
This docker-compose `ports` specifies the ports that the container needs to map to the host machine.
`mem_limit: 16g` sets the memory limit to 16GB, ensuring that the TRON container gets enough memory.

By default, it will use the [configuration](https://github.com/tronprotocol/java-tron/blob/develop/framework/src/main/resources/config.conf),
which sets the fullNode to connect to the Mainnet with genesis block settings in `genesis.block`.
Once the fullnode starts, it will begin to sync blocks with other peers starting from genesis block.

Check the logs using command `docker exec tron-node tail -f ./logs/tron.log`. It will show the fullnode handshaking with peers successfully and then syncing for blocks.
For abnormal cases, please check the troubleshooting section below.

### Run with customized configure
This image also supports customizing some startup parameters. Here is an example for running a FullNode as a witness with a [customized configuration file](docker-compose-configure-example.yml):
```
services:
  tron-node:
    container_name: tron-node
    image: tronprotocol/java-tron:latest  # Add specific tag if needed
    mem_limit: 16g
    ports:
      - "8090:8090"
      - "8091:8091"
      - "18888:18888"
      - "18888:18888/udp"
      - "50051:50051"
    volumes:
      - ../conf:/java-tron/conf
      - ../logs:/java-tron/logs
      - ../output-directory:/java-tron/output-directory
    command: >
      -jvm "{-Xmx14g -Xms12g -XX:+UseConcMarkSweepGC}"
      -c /java-tron/conf/main_net_config.conf
      -d /java-tron/output-directory
      -w
```
The `volumes` specifies the directory that the container needs to map to the host machine.
In the example above, the host file `../conf/main_net_config.conf` will be used. In this case, it should be [main_net_config.conf](../conf/main_net_config.conf).
Logs generated by docker container will be mapped to your `../logs/mainnet/logs`.

Flags in `command` are used for java-tron start-up arguments:
- `-jvm` used for java virtual machine, the parameters must be enclosed in double quotes and braces. `"{-Xmx14g -Xms12g}"` sets the maximum and initial heap size to 14GB and 12GB respectively. If you want to set up a long run normal FullNode, please use the best practice jvm flags with `"{-Xms12g -Xmx12g -Xmn2g XX:ReservedCodeCacheSize=256m -XX:MetaspaceSize=256m -XX:MaxMetaspaceSize=512m -XX:MaxDirectMemorySize=1G -XX:+PrintGCDetails -XX:+PrintGCDateStamps  -Xloggc:gc.log -XX:+UseConcMarkSweepGC -XX:NewRatio=3 -XX:+CMSScavengeBeforeRemark -XX:+ParallelRefProcEnabled -XX:+HeapDumpOnOutOfMemoryError -XX:+UseCMSInitiatingOccupancyOnly  -XX:CMSInitiatingOccupancyFraction=70}"`. If you want to set up a long run FullNode for producing blocks, please use the best practice jvm flags with `"{-Xms24g -Xmx24g -Xmn2g XX:ReservedCodeCacheSize=256m -XX:MetaspaceSize=256m -XX:MaxMetaspaceSize=512m -XX:MaxDirectMemorySize=1G -XX:+PrintGCDetails -XX:+PrintGCDateStamps  -Xloggc:gc.log -XX:+UseConcMarkSweepGC -XX:NewRatio=3 -XX:+CMSScavengeBeforeRemark -XX:+ParallelRefProcEnabled -XX:+HeapDumpOnOutOfMemoryError -XX:+UseCMSInitiatingOccupancyOnly  -XX:CMSInitiatingOccupancyFraction=70}"
- `-c` defines the configuration file to use.
- `-d` defines the database file to use. You can mount a directory for `datadir` with snapshots. This can save time by syncing from a near-latest block number. Please refer to [**Fullnode and Lite-Fullnode**](https://tronprotocol.github.io/documentation-en/using_javatron/backup_restore/#fullnode-data-snapshot) for Mainnet data. For the Nile testnet, you can download the snapshot [here](https://database.nileex.io/).
- `-w` means to start as a witness. You need to fill the `localwitness` field with private keys in configure file. Refer to the [**Run as Witness**](https://tronprotocol.github.io/documentation-en/using_javatron/installing_javatron/#startup-a-fullnode-that-produces-blocks). If you want to use keystore + password method, make sure the keystore is inside the mounted directory and remove `-d` to interact with console for password input.

Inside the `main_net_config.conf` file `node.p2p.version` is used to set the P2P network id. Only nodes with the same network id can shake hands successfully.
- TRON Mainnet: node.p2p.version=11111
- Nile testnet: node.p2p.version = 201910292
- Private network：set to other values

Please note that if you want to switch to a different network, such as the Nile testnet or private network, make sure you change the following:

- **Configuration File**:
  - For Mainnet, use [main_net_config.conf](https://github.com/tronprotocol/tron-docker/blob/main/conf/main_net_config.conf).
  - For Nile Testnet, use the configuration file available on this [page](https://nileex.io/join/getJoinPage) or [nile_net_config.conf](https://github.com/tronprotocol/tron-docker/blob/main/conf/nile_net_config.conf).

  The main differences between these two files are:
  - `genesis.block`: Used for initial account asset and witness setup.
  - `seed.node`: Used for P2P nodes discovery.
  - `node.p2p.version`: Differentiates the network.
  - `block.maintenanceTimeInterval` and `block.proposalExpireTime`: Used for TRON core protocol.

- **Data Snapshot**:
  - Ensure that the data snapshot you download corresponds to the correct network.

### Close Docker application
java-tron supports application shutdown with `kill -15`, which sends a `SIGTERM` signal to the application, allowing it to gracefully shut down. java-tron is also compatible with force shutdown using `kill -9`, which sends a `SIGKILL` signal.

Thus, you can use the command `docker-compose stop/down` or `docker-compose kill` to stop or close all the services.

## Interact with FullNode
After the fullnode runs successfully, you can interact with it using the HTTP API or wallet-cli. For more details, please refer to [guidance](https://tronprotocol.github.io/documentation-en/getting_started/getting_started_with_javatron/#interacting-with-java-tron-nodes-using-curl).

For example, a request to get block info with a specific number:
```
curl --location 'localhost:8090/wallet/getblock' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data '{
    "id_or_num": "2936021",
    "detail": true
}'
```
Response:
```
{
    "blockID": "00000000002cccd50141f9067dffe98acf8f042b0e97e92a32da469ea12b6217",
    "block_header": {
        "raw_data": {
            "number": 2936021,
            "txTrieRoot": "f7019193ae9ee239bd0b60cf46cc6800a33f15e136906f5503107f27f2d56c3a",
            "witness_address": "41243accc5241d97ce79272b06952ee88a34d8e1f9",
            "parentHash": "00000000002cccd4d614847f112128e84750d0b6326c10396c51322dadc02ef4",
            "version": 3,
            "timestamp": 1538732154000
        },
        "witness_signature": "3ff90d8825b3a2524154a71c9144f95534229ad3e3333d33e3d1c30bdd16c6827f23da82b4b1c353253a993688189368b98de79184d036768387d3f94fe226bf00"
    },
    "transactions": [
        {
            "signature": [
                "e856b3671be380b94d01986ade3f7103211e4b00a96280c1c892cc847796e8493e4fc2f54e5cf5d1c6c1c741620fbf1b7678c64f1ccf89296c5538fdb4a6803700"
            ],
            "txID": "c97ebda79cb2265963cf5a30949d290edb151492dc60a8a9cd244d2948a92222",
            "raw_data": {
                "contract": [
                    {
                        "parameter": {
                            "value": {
                                "amount": 2066756,
                                "owner_address": "41ef404c62c8760cd385036f741a71ee7553daddd0",
                                "to_address": "419474534de777d724355c5d051084fc10b8c79f70"
                            },
                            "type_url": "type.googleapis.com/protocol.TransferContract"
                        },
                        "type": "TransferContract"
                    }
                ],
                "ref_block_bytes": "ccd3",
                "ref_block_hash": "57c2c6c50a313845",
                "expiration": 1538732208000,
                "timestamp": 1538732149804
            },
            "raw_data_hex": "0a02ccd3220857c2c6c50a3138454080dfd89ce42c5a67080112630a2d747970652e676f6f676c65617069732e636f6d2f70726f746f636f6c2e5472616e73666572436f6e747261637412320a1541ef404c62c8760cd385036f741a71ee7553daddd01215419474534de777d724355c5d051084fc10b8c79f7018c4927e70ac98d59ce42c"
        },
        ...
    ]
}
```
**Notice**: Before the local full node has synced with the latest block transactions, requests for account state or transaction information may be outdated or empty.

## Troubleshot
After starting the Docker container, use `docker exec tron-node tail -f ./logs/tron.log` to check if the full node is functioning as expected and to identify any errors when interacting with the full node.
If you go through the **Run with Customized Configuration** section, you can also directly open and check the locally mapped `tron.log` file.

If the following error cases do not cover your issue, please refer to [Issue Work Flow](https://tronprotocol.github.io/documentation-en/developers/issue-workflow/#issue-work-flow), then raise issue in [Github](https://github.com/tronprotocol/tron-docker/issues).

### Error case handling

#### Zero peer connection
If the logs show `Peer stats: all 0, active 0, passive 0`, it means tron node cannot use **P2P Node Discovering Protocol** to find neighbors.
This protocol operates over UDP through port 18888. Therefore, the most likely cause of this issue is a network problem.
Try debugging with the following steps:
- Use the command `docker ps` to check if the port mapping includes `-p 18888:18888`.
- Verify your local network settings to ensure that port 18888 is not blocked.
- If you are using a cloud server, check the security group settings to ensure that port 18888 is open.
- If you are using macOS, open the Docker application, navigate to Settings \-> Resources \-> Network, and check the option \`Use kernel networking for UDP\`. Then restart Docker and your container.
- If you are using Linux, you may need to enable IP forwarding:
  - Add \`net.ipv4.ip_forward=1\` to file \`/etc/sysctl.conf\`
  - Then restarted the network service and validated the setting:
  ```
  [root@demo]# systemctl restart network
  [root@demo]# sysctl net.ipv4.ip_forward
  net. ipv4. ip_forward = 1 // expected output
  ```
